
Code
Subject
Description
E20
#1
Job Development Contact
AJCC Staff Contacted an employer regarding job development  
contact participation. If the employer is not registered, then staff 
would need to complete the employer's CalJOBS' registration to  
collect the employer's information
E60
#2
Employer Networking
AJCC staff provided an employer with information regarding AJCC 
services in an effort to establish a relationship, or to maintain an 
existing relationship.
E28
#3
Marketing Package
AJCC staff provided employer marketing materials containing 
information regarding EDD services. Materials could include, but 
are not limited to, DE forms, brochures geared towards the 
employer, Labor Market information Fact Sheet, and flyers 
E03
#4
CalJOBS Assistance
AJCC staff provided an employer with information regarding 
CalJOBS, or assisted an employer with registering in CalJOBS
E48

Youth Employment 
Opportunities
*To be used after site has 
been approved*
A Youth Employment Opportunity Program (YEOP) Specialist 
contacted an employer for the purposes of informing the employer 
about YEOP, and encouraging the employer to hire a Youth 
participant.
E69
Follow-up with employer 
on employer services
*to be done the following 
day*
AJCC staff contacted the employer to determine if employer 
services that were provided by the AJCC were successful
E01
Alien Labor Certification
*For Elevate*
Under the H-2A program, local AJCC staff developed a hiring 
agreement with an employer that took into account the local AJCC 
Site's resources, but that did not adversely affect the site's ability to 
adequately serve other employers. The hiring agreement may not 
include provisions for AJCC staff to assist the employer in pre-
employment activities such as verifying prior employment or 
obtaining references.
E02
Americans with 
Disabilities
AHCC contacted an employer that submitted a job posting that 
appeared to be discriminatory under the American with Disabilities 
Act of 1990. In contacting the employer, AJCC provided legal job 
posting requirements, and informed the employer that unless the 
job posting's specifications can be legally justified, that the 
employer's job posting request could not be accommodated.
E04
Apprenticeship
AJCC staff provided an employer with informa



tion regarding CalJOBS, or assisted an employer with registering in 
CalJOBS
E05
Bonding
The Designated AJCC staff person responsible for providing and/or 
arranging for bonding services, completed the required steps to 
provide an employer with a fidelity bond for an at-risk or hard-to-
place participant. These steps include, but are not limited to, 
ensuring the employer meets all eligibility requirements, completing 
the EDD Fidelity Bonding Certification Request, completing the 
EDD Fidelity Bonding Employer Confirmation Letter, and submitting 
bonding requests to the workforce Services' Division Bonding 
Coordinator. 
E06
CalJOBS External 
Recruitment
After determining that the CalJOBS job-seeker participant pool did 
not include qualified individuals for an employer's specific job 
opening, AJCC staff conducted recruitment efforts to locate 
qualified individuals.These efforts include, but are not limited to, 
contacting colleges, trade schools, professional organizations, and 
other employment and training providers who may have access to 
individuals with the employer's required skills and qualifications.
E07
Disability Insurance
An AJCC sponsored a Disability Insurance seminar for employers.
E08
Employer Advisory 
Council (EAC)
AJCC staff provided an employer information regarding the 
Employer Advisory Council, or provided AJCC Services to an 
employer at an Employer Advisory Council event.
E09
Employer Application 
Issuance
At the request of an employer, ACC staff issued the employer's 
work application to job seekers. Prior to agreeing to issue the 
employer's work application, the staff member reviewed the work 
application to ensure compliance with the Department of Fair 
Employment and Housing pre-employment guidlines.
E10
Employer Recall
AJCC staff suspended an employer's access to CalJOBS after 
determining the employer violated workforce Services' regulations 
and/ot Federal, state, or local employment-related laws. Reasons 
for access suspension include, but are not limited to: the employer 
includes discriminatory specifications in the job listing; fails to 
adhere to Federal, State, or local employment-related laws; 
misrepresents terms or conditions of employment; causes 
Workforce Services to receive substantiated formal or informal 
complaints from job seekers' and posts an invalid job opening, such 
as one due to a trade dispute.
E11
Employment Training 
Panel (ETP)
AJCC staff assisted an employer with information regarding the 
Employment Training Panel's (ETP) available programs and 
services, including eligibility requirements, application assistance 
and programs specific to an employer's business. 

This definition does not include Training for New Employees (E40), 
or Training for current Employees (E41)
E12
Employment Law
An AJCC sponsored a labor law seminar for employers.
E13
Employment Taxes
An AJCC sponsored a payroll tax seminar for employers
E14
Enterprise Zone (EZ) Tax 
Credits
AJCC staff identified a potentially eligible job seeker and referred 
him/her to the nearest Enterprise Zone-certifying agency or 
Enterprise Zone employer. Staff may not perform eligibility 
determinations, request documentation, or sign the Enterprise Tax 
Voucher (DOC EZ1)
E15
Exclusive Hiring 
Agreement
AJCC staff established an agreement with an employer that 
requires all job seekers to apply through CalJOBS
E16
Federal Contractor Job 
Listing
AJCC staff assisted an employer with federal job contractor job 
listing. Staff ensured that the federal contractor was properly 
identified, and that its special employment needs, particularly those 
relating to qualified veterans' hiring, were met to the fullest possible 
extent.
E17
Fraud Reporting
After receiving a job listing from a questionable employer, AJCC 
staff ensured the request was genuine, and represented an actual 
job opportunity. Questionable employer examples include 
employers who require unusual pre-employment action on the job-
seeker's part (e.g. a deposit for some alleged service, such as 
training, transportation dues, fees, or food and lodging; employers 
who require monetary deposits or payments), unknown employers 
who request permission to interview at the AJCC; employers who 
ask job seekers to be sent to an address that's not a normal place 
of business (e.g., hotel room), unknown employer who offer to 
provide transportation to the job site, and employers whose 
address or job location is vague.
E18
High Density 
Unemployment Area 
Resident
AJCC staff assisted an employer in hiring a high-density 
unemployment area resident.
E19
Internship
AJCC staff entered an internship into CalJOBS for an employer, or 
publicized the internship at the AJCC.
E21
Job Fairs
AJCC staff partnered with an appropriate entity within the 
community to present and/or participate in a job fair
E22
Job Identification Contact
AJCC staff contacted a CalJOBS registered employer for available 
postings.
E23
Job Listing Assistance
AJCC staff assisted a CalJOBS-registered employer with filling out 
a job listing from (DE 8203), or AJCC staff completed a job order 
listing in CalJOBS on behalf of the employer.

This service does not include CalJOBS Assistance (E03)
E24
Job Referral
BSR referred employers to participants and informed them of open 
positions within the company.
E25
Job Shadowing
AJCC staff coordinated a job shadowing experience for a qualified 
participant with an employer. The employer would like to hire a 
participant, but would first like the participant to do a job shadowing.
E26
Labor market Information
AJCC staff provided an employer with a nation, state, or local 
area's market information to assist in the employer's business plan 
expansion, relocation, or future hiring and training needs; or, 
referred the employer to a labor market information consultant who 
prepared detailed occupational labor market for the employer
E27
Local Planning, Zoning, 
Permits
AJCC staff provided an employer with Local Planning, Zoning, and 
Permits information.
E29
New Employee Registry
AJCC staff provided an employer with specific information 
pertaining to the California New Employee Registry.
E30
On-The-Job Training
AJCC staff established an on-the-job training contract with an 
employer. Under the contract, the employer provided occupational 
training to a WIOA participant in exchange for a specific percentage 
reimbursement of the participant's wage rate, and received 
technical assistance from AJCC staff throughout the life of the 
training contract.
E31
Older Worker Hiring
AJCC staff conducted outreach efforts to employers highlighting the 
potential of older workers and their contributions to a diverse 
workforce. The outreach efforts highlighted traits that make  older 
workers ideal candidates for employment, including their reliability, 
commitment, enthusiasm, and a keen know-how that comes with a 
lifetime of experience.
E32
Rapid Response (layoff or 
closure)
AJCC staff provided rapid response activities in the case of a 
permanent closure or mass layoff at a plant, facility or enterprise, or 
a natural or other disaster that resulted in mass job dislocation in 
order to assist dislocated workers in obtaining reemployment as 
soon as possible. Rapid response activities include, but are not 
limited to, establishing on-site contact with employers and 
employee representatives;providing information and access to 
available employment and training activities; providing an on-site 
presentation to employees on when to file for, how to file for, and 
who qualifies for unemployment insurance; assisting in establishing 
a labor-management committee; voluntarily agreed to by labor and 
management, with the ability to devise and implement a strategy for 
assessing the employment and training needs of Dislocated 
Workers, and obtaining services to meet such needs; providing 
emergency assistance adapted to the particular closure, layoffs or 
disaster; and providing assistance to the local community in 
developing a coordinated response and in obtaining access to state 
economic development assistance.
E33
Recruitment at EDD
An employer used an AJCC's facility and scheduling services to 
screen and interview job-seeking participants.
E34
Reverse Referral 
Agreement
AJCC staff established an agreement with an employer that it 
would provide a handout or poster to encourage job seekers to 
enroll and enter a resume in CalJOBS. The rationale for this 
agreement is that when an employer has openings and lists them in 
the CalJOBS those job seekers' resumes can be accessed by the 
employer. This Agreement reduces business interruptions to the 
employer when there are no openings, and expands the job-seeker 
participant pool in CalJOBS
E35
Resume Referral
AJCC staff conducted a resume search to find job-seeking 
participant resumes that match an employer's job requirements, 
and provided those resumes to the employer
E36
Career Pathways 
Programs
AJCC staff coordinated a focused recruitment campaign for a new 
business venture, or a facility needing a large number of 
specialized workers.
E37
Targeted Recruitment
AHCC staff coordinated a focused recruitment campaign for a new 
business venture, or a facility needing a large number of 
specialized workers.
E38
Tax Credit Programs
AJCC staff informed an employer about available hiring incentives 
and tax credits including, but not limited to, the work opportunity tax 
credit (WOTC), empowerment zone/renewal community tex 
incentives, the disabled access credit, and the architectural and 
transportation tax deduction.

This definition does not include the veteran hiring incentive program 
(E43)
E39
Trade Credit Programs
AJCC staff informed an employer of Trade Assistance Act (TAA) 
associated programs.
E40
Training for New 
Employees
AJCC staff informed an employer of funding available through the 
employment training panel (ETP) for workforce training programs, 
and referred it to the ETP website or phone number for additional 
information
E41
Training for Current 
Employees
AJCC staff informed an employer of funding available through the 
Employment Training Panel (ATP) for workforce training programs, 
and referred it to the ETP website or phone number for additional 
information
E42
Unemployment Insurance
AJCC staff sponsored a seminar for employers regarding 
Unemployment Insurance
E43
Veteran Hiring Incentive 
Program
AJCC staff informed an employer about the Work Opportunity Tax 
Credit (WOTC) and the "qualified Veterans" is one of the WOTC 
target groups that may qualify the employer for a tax credit
E44
Welfare Recipient Hiring
AJCC staff assisted an employer in hiring a welfare recipient.
E45
Work experience 
Programs
AJCC staff coordinated with an employer to provide a participant 
with a Work Experience Opportunity, and technical assistance 
throughout the life of the contract. Work Experience is a structured 
learning experience that takes place in a workplace for a limited 
time period. It may be paid or unpaid, as appropriate, and may be 
in private for-profit sector, or the public sector
E46
Workforce Innovation and 
Opportunity Act (WIOA)
AJCC staff informed an employer of available Workforce Innovation 
and Opportunity Act employer services that include, but are not 
limited to, customized training, on-the-job-training reimbursement 
assistance, and training subsidies.
E57
Follow-up with Employer 
on New Hires
AJCC staff conducted the employer to determine if a hired 
participant was successful, and to provide as-needed additional 
assistance to the employer to ensure satisfaction with the business 
services provided by AJCC staff
E59
Follow-up with employer 
on referred Candidate
AJCC staff contacted an employer via phone, email, or in person to 
follow-up on a candidate referred by staff to a CalJOBS job listing.
E62
Referral to Community 
Resource
AJCC staff provided a proactive linkage and referral to community 
resources that support an employer's workforce needs.
E64
Small Business 
Downsizing/Closure 
Assistance
AJCC staff provided services to a small business. Assistance may 
include onsite visits to provide the employer with information on the 
available AJCC services for affected employees and referrals to 
appropriate community resources
E65
Engage in Strategic 
Planning/Economic 
Development
AJCC staff engaged in workforce investment strategic planning or 
business growth and economic development strategic planning. 
These activities include, but are not limited to, participating in 
community-based strategic planning; sponsoring employer forums; 
securing information on industry trends; providing information for 
the purpose of corporate economic development planning; 
partnering in collaborative efforts to identify workforce challenges; 
and developing ways to address those challenges.
E70
Youth Outreach and 
Marketing Presentation
Staff conducted presentations at entities (e.g., employers, 
community-based organizations, schools, workforce partners) in the 
community serving youth on the available EDD and partner youth 
services and resources as part of the YEOP expansion effort.
E71
Youth Outreach and 
Marketing Contact
Staff contacted entities (e.g., employers, community-based 
organizations, schools, workforce partners) serving youth to 
schedule an appointment to provide information on the available 
EDD and partner youth services and resources as part of the YEOP
E92
Notification to Employer of 
Potential Applicant
*This code is system 
generated at time of client 
notification.*
Staff notified the client of potential job. 










Code
Supportive Service 
Type
Description
183
Incentives/Bonuses
Participant is requesting supportive services in the amount 
of $300 incentive for completion of al 6 INVEST workshops. 
Completion of 5 modules on the GetYourEdge.org. 
Completed: Fair chance workshops with INVEST BTS, 
budgets & Finance basics, social media & online presence, 
Developing a professional Image, Active listening, and 
dealing with difficult situations
188
Clothing Voucher
Participant is requesting assistance for clothing. Participant 
is scheduled to start (school or work) and does not have 
sufficient amount of clothing due to financial insecurity. 
181
Supportive Service: 
Transportation 
assistance TAP Card

Participant is requesting assistance for a TAP CARD to 
commute to and from AJCC, Job search and vocational 
training search. Participant does not have an automobile 
and requires transportation assistance

Timesheet Upload
BSR received participant's time sheets from the worksite he 
was completing his hours. BSR collected his time sheet for 
March with a total of 160 hours completed within the month. 
Participant has not completed all his work experience hours 
provided to him, with a remaining of 140 hours for 
completion. Career coach will continue to provide him 
services to help with employment. The months time sheets 
have been uploaded.


BSR received participant's time sheets from the worksite 
she was completing her hours. BSR collected her time 
sheet for March with a total of 128 hours completed within 
the month. Participant has completed all her work 
experience hours provided to her. Time sheets and pay 
stubs have been uploaded.



